I WAS not aware at first of the many discussions which had gone on
about that window. It was almost opposite one of the windows of the
large old-fashioned drawing-room of the house in which I spent that
summer, which was of so much importance in my life. Our house and the
library were on opposite sides of the broad High Street of St Rule's,
which is a fine street, wide and ample, and very quiet, as strangers
think who come from noisier places; but in a summer evening there is
much coming and going, and the stillness is full of sound--the sound
of footsteps and pleasant voices, softened by the summer air. There
are even exceptional moments when it is noisy: the time of the fair,
and on Saturday nights sometimes, and when there are excursion trains.
Then even the softest sunny air of the evening will not smooth the
harsh tones and the stumbling steps; but at these unlovely moments we
shut the windows, and even I, who am so fond of that deep recess where
I can take refuge from all that is going on inside, and make myself a
spectator of all the varied story out of doors, withdraw from my
watch-tower. To tell the truth, there never was very much going on
inside. The house belonged to my aunt, to whom (she says, Thank God!)
nothing ever happens. I believe that many things have happened to her
in her time; but that was all over at the period of which I am
speaking, and she was old, and very quiet. Her life went on in a
routine never broken. She got up at the same hour every day, and did
the same things in the same rotation, day by day the same. She said
that this was the greatest support in the world, and that routine is a
kind of salvation. It may be so; but it is a very dull salvation, and
I used to feel that I would rather have incident, whatever kind of
incident it might be. But then at that time I was not old, which makes
all the difference. At the time of which I speak the deep recess of
the drawing-room window was a great comfort to me. Though she was an
old lady (perhaps because she was so old) she was very tolerant, and
had a kind of feeling for me. She never said a word, but often gave me
a smile when she saw how I had built myself up, with my books and my
basket of work. I did very little work, I fear--now and then a few
stitches when the spirit moved me, or when I had got well afloat in a
dream, and was more tempted to follow it out than to read my book, as
sometimes happened. At other times, and if the book were interesting,
I used to get through volume after volume sitting there, paying no
attention to anybody. And yet I did pay a kind of attention. 